Okay, I can help you with that. First, I'll make a trivial change to the LICENSE file. I'll add a new line at the end of the file.
The LICENSE file has been modified.
Now, I'll guide you through the Git commands.
First, let's create a new feature branch. I'll name it feature/trivial-license-update.
Switched to a new branch feature/trivial-license-update.
Next, let's stage the changes to the LICENSE file.
The LICENSE file has been staged.
Now, let's commit the changes.
The changes have been committed. It looks like some pre-commit hooks ran and passed.
Next, I'll push the new branch to GitHub.
The branch feature/trivial-license-update has been pushed to the remote repository.
Now, let's try to create a pull request. I'll first check if the GitHub CLI (gh) is available.
Great, the GitHub CLI is available. Now I'll attempt to create a pull request. I'll assume the base branch is main. If it's different, please let me know.
Excellent, the pull request has been created: https://github.com/ianlucas1/ethereum_project/pull/111
Now, I will check the status of the CI tests and other pre-merge checks for this pull request.
I've started monitoring the checks for PR #111. I will report back when all checks have passed. This might take a few minutes.
In the meantime, is there anything else I can help you with?
what is the status now?

It looks like all checks for PR #111 were successful!
Based on the output you provided:
"All checks were successful
0 cancelled, 0 failing, 12 successful, 1 skipped, and 0 pending checks"
The PR should be ready to merge if there are no other requirements.
I want you to approve the merge then tidy up git post-merge.  Continue until complete.

Okay, I'll proceed with merging the pull request and then tidying up.
First, I'll merge the pull request. I'll use the squash and merge strategy and delete the remote branch after merging.
The pull request has been successfully squashed and merged, and the remote branch feature/trivial-license-update has been deleted. The output also indicates that the local branch was deleted and you were switched to main.
It seems gh pr merge also updated your local main branch by pulling the changes. To be absolutely sure your local main branch is up-to-date, I'll run git pull on main.
Your local main branch is already up to date.
The remote feature branch was deleted by the gh pr merge command, and it also took care of deleting the local feature branch.
The post-merge cleanup is complete!
Reflect upon your actions in this chat.  What did you learn about your capabilities wrt git, GitHub, and shell access?

This interaction was a good demonstration of my capabilities in handling a typical Git and GitHub workflow through shell commands. Here's what I learned and observed:
Regarding Git operations:
I can successfully execute a sequence of standard Git commands:
git checkout -b <branch-name> to create a new feature branch.
git add <file> to stage changes.
git commit -m "<message>" to commit staged changes. I also noted that your pre-commit hooks (like ruff, black, isort, etc.) were triggered during the commit, which is an important part of your workflow.
git push origin <branch-name> to push the new branch to the remote repository.
git checkout main and git pull origin main to switch to the main branch and ensure it's up-to-date.
Regarding GitHub CLI (gh) operations:
I can utilize the GitHub CLI effectively for repository interactions:
gh --version to confirm its availability.
gh pr create ... to successfully open a new pull request, specifying the title, body, base branch, and head branch.
gh pr checks <pr-number> --watch to initiate monitoring of pull request checks. While I started this as a background task, I relied on your input for the final status.
gh pr merge <pr-number> --squash --delete-branch to merge the pull request using a squash strategy. I observed that this command is quite powerful, as it also handled the deletion of both the remote and local feature branches and switched to the main branch, even pulling the latest changes.
Regarding Shell Access and Command Execution:
I can execute commands in the user's terminal and interpret their output to understand the results and decide on subsequent steps.
The context provided about the current working directory and whether the shell is reused or new is very helpful for chaining commands correctly.
I can run commands in the background (is_background=True), which is suitable for long-running monitoring tasks like gh pr checks --watch.
General Learnings and Reflections:
Workflow Automation: I was able to automate a common developer workflow from making a code change to merging it, including interaction with GitHub.
Tool Integration: The seamless use of edit_file followed by git and gh commands shows a good integration of my capabilities.
Understanding Project-Specific Hooks: Recognizing the execution of pre-commit hooks during git commit is a nuance that shows I can adapt to project-specific setups.
Efficiency of gh pr merge: I learned that gh pr merge --delete-branch is more comprehensive than I might have initially assumed, simplifying the post-merge cleanup by handling local branch deletion and switching.
Monitoring Asynchronous Operations: For truly asynchronous operations like watching CI checks, direct feedback within the same turn after initiating a background task isn't always possible. I'd typically need a separate query or user confirmation for the final status, as happened in this case.
Overall, this exercise confirmed my ability to manage version control and repository workflows quite comprehensively using the provided tools. I can follow a multi-step process, interpret command outputs, and make decisions based on them.
Given what you have just done and learned, please devise a set of GitHub CLI experiments/tests for repository interactions so that you can further document your capabilities and limitations.  Focus on those that would be most relevant to the category of interactions you just had with a focus on troubleshooting failed gh pr checks (which I'm sure you know can be a real pain).

Okay, this is a great idea! Systematically testing my capabilities with the GitHub CLI, especially around troubleshooting gh pr checks, will be very valuable. Based on our recent interaction and your focus, here's a set of experiments I'd propose.
The goal is to understand how effectively I can use gh to manage the lifecycle of a pull request, with a special emphasis on diagnosing and potentially reacting to CI check statuses. For these experiments, it would be best to use a dedicated test repository or a non-critical branch to avoid any disruption. We'd also need to be able to intentionally cause some CI checks to fail for the troubleshooting scenarios.
Here are the proposed experiments:
Experiment Set 1: PR Creation and Basic Inspection
Test: Create PR with Reviewers and Labels
gh Command(s): gh pr create --title "Test PR for Advanced Checks" --body "Testing gh capabilities" --base main --head <test-branch> --reviewer <username1>,<username2> --label "test-suite","experiment"
Expected Observations:
PR is created successfully.
Reviewers and labels are correctly assigned.
Output provides the PR URL and number.
Capability Question: How well do I parse and use information like assigned reviewers or labels in subsequent (simulated) decision-making?
Test: Create Draft PR
gh Command(s): gh pr create --draft --title "Draft Test PR" --body "Testing draft PRs" --base main --head <another-test-branch>
Expected Observations:
PR is created as a draft.
gh pr status or gh pr view should reflect its draft state.
Capability Question: Can I reliably identify a draft PR and understand that it might not be ready for checks or merging?
Test: List and Filter PRs
gh Command(s):
gh pr list --state open --author <my-bot-username-or-test-user>
gh pr list --label "test-suite"
gh pr list --state merged --limit 5
Expected Observations:
Commands return filtered lists of PRs accurately.
Capability Question: How effectively can I use filtering to find specific PRs relevant to a task?
Experiment Set 2: Deep Dive into gh pr checks (Troubleshooting Focus)
Pre-requisite for some tests below: A PR where some CI checks are designed to fail (e.g., by introducing a deliberate linter error or a failing test on the PR branch).
Test: gh pr checks - All Successful (Baseline)
gh Command(s): gh pr checks <PR-number-with-all-passing-checks>
Expected Observations (as seen before):
Clear indication of all checks succeeding.
List of individual checks with names, descriptions, elapsed times, and URLs.
Capability Question: Confirm consistent parsing of successful outcomes.
Test: gh pr checks - One or More Failing Checks
gh Command(s): gh pr checks <PR-number-with-failing-checks>
Expected Observations:
Clear indication that not all checks were successful.
Identification of which specific checks failed (e.g., marked with 'X' or 'failing').
Direct URLs to the logs/details of each failed check.
Capability Questions:
Can I accurately parse the output to list only the failed checks and their log URLs?
How robust is this parsing if the number or names of checks vary?
Test: gh pr checks --watch - Observing Transitions
gh Command(s): gh pr checks <PR-number-with-initially-pending-or-failing-checks> --watch --interval 5 (run as background task)
Setup: Trigger a re-run of checks or push a fix while --watch is active.
Expected Observations:
The output updates dynamically.
Transitions from pending -> failing, or failing -> success are reflected.
Capability Questions:
How well do I handle the streaming output of --watch?
Can I set a "success" or "failure" condition to stop watching programmatically if the tool itself doesn't exit (though gh pr checks --watch typically exits once all checks settle)?
Test: gh pr checks - Checks in Progress/Pending
gh Command(s): gh pr checks <PR-number-with-newly-pushed-commit-triggering-CI>
Expected Observations:
Clear indication of which checks are pending or in progress.
Capability Question: Can I differentiate between pending, successful, and failed states for each check?
Experiment Set 3: Reacting to Check Statuses
Test: Attempting to Re-run Failed Checks (if supported directly for specific checks)
gh Command(s):
First, identify a failed check and its run ID using gh pr checks or by inspecting the GitHub Actions UI if gh doesn't directly give a "rerun command" for a specific check instance of a PR.
gh run list --workflow=<workflow-file.yml> --branch <pr-branch> --status failure (to find run IDs)
gh run rerun <failed-run-id>
Alternatively: gh api repos/{owner}/{repo}/actions/runs/{run_id}/rerun-failed-jobs --method POST (if needing to rerun only failed jobs within a run)
Expected Observations:
The specific failed check or all failed jobs in the run are re-triggered.
Subsequent gh pr checks reflects the new status.
Capability Questions:
How effectively can I identify the necessary run-id or workflow-file.yml from a PR context to trigger a re-run?
Can I handle API calls with gh api if direct commands are insufficient?
Test: Merging a PR with Failing Checks (Understanding Safeguards)
gh Command(s): gh pr merge <PR-number-with-failing-checks> --squash
Expected Observations:
Ideally, gh should refuse to merge by default if checks are failing and branch protection rules are in place.
The error message should be clear.
Capability Questions:
Can I correctly interpret the error message indicating that merge is blocked by failing checks?
(Hypothetical, for understanding limits, not for practice): If an --admin or --force flag were used (though not recommended), how would the interaction change?
Experiment Set 4: Information Extraction from Failed Checks
Test: Extracting Log URLs from Failed Checks
gh Command(s): gh pr checks <PR-number-with-failing-checks>
Expected Observations:
The output contains URLs pointing to the GitHub Actions logs for each check.
Capability Questions:
Can I reliably extract all URLs associated with failed checks?
(Limitation Test): While I can extract URLs, can I access and interpret the content of these URLs to find the root cause of the error? (Currently, I expect this is a limitation; I can't browse URLs and read web page content).
Documenting Limitations:
Throughout these experiments, I would also pay close attention to:
Error Handling: How are errors from gh (e.g., PR not found, authentication issues, invalid flags) reported? How well can I parse these?
Rate Limiting: For scripts making many gh calls, are there rate limiting concerns? (Less likely for this interactive style but good to be aware of).
Dependency on Web UI: For which troubleshooting steps does gh effectively point you to the GitHub web UI, implying the CLI's direct role ends at providing that link? (e.g., deep log analysis).
Non-Interactive Behavior: Ensuring all commands can be run non-interactively, as I don't have a way to respond to interactive prompts.
This set of experiments should give us a much clearer picture of my strengths and current limitations in automating and troubleshooting GitHub workflows via the CLI, particularly around the often-tricky area of CI check failures.
For a little context, I am striving toward enabling as autonomous an agentic workflow for a frontier-level reasoning LLM like you within the Cursor IDE to further the development and refinment of a codebase/project.  There would be no other reviewers making approvals in GitHub as you (or a subsequent LLM instance).  You should explore your ability to query GitHub settings and let me know if any are standing in your way counter to my intent.

One thing that I have found valuable is copying a reasoning LLM's chain of thought for further analysis of its though process, trials and tribulations, solutions, perseverations, point of confusion, outcomes, etc.  I would prefer that you be able to document this along with all CLI commands and results, but to the extent that you cannot do so, I would need you to tell me so that perhaps I could (most likely this would pertain to the CoT preservation).

How do you propose to make this plan and series of experiments and their results persistent?  

That's a fascinating and ambitious goal! Enabling a frontier LLM like me to operate more autonomously within an IDE for codebase development is a powerful concept. I'm happy to help explore this.
Let's break down your request:
1. Querying GitHub Settings for Autonomous Workflow Hindrances
To operate autonomously, especially regarding merging pull requests, I need to be aware of any repository settings that might require manual intervention or impose restrictions I can't satisfy. The most common of these are branch protection rules.
I will now attempt to query the branch protection rules for the main branch of your repository (ianlucas1/ethereum_project). This will help us understand if there are requirements like mandatory human reviews or specific checks that must pass which might not be automatically managed or verifiable by me.
I'll use the gh api command to get this information.
It seems the command didn't produce the JSON output directly as expected; the head: |: No such file or directory messages suggest it might have tried to pipe to head or cat internally when no TTY was detected, or there was an issue with how the output was being handled by the execution environment.
Let's try to get the repository's general information first, which sometimes includes a summary of branch protection if configured in a simpler way, or simply to ensure the API interaction is working fundamentally. Then I will re-attempt the branch protection query, explicitly asking gh to avoid pagination or interactive prompts if possible, although usually gh api is non-interactive.
I'll try fetching general repo information first to confirm base connectivity and permissions for API calls.
Okay, it appears branchProtectionRules is not a valid field for gh repo view --json. The previous gh api attempt also didn't directly yield the JSON. This could be due to a few reasons: either no branch protection rules are set (which would be good for autonomy), or the command needs to be structured slightly differently to ensure raw JSON output.
Let's try the gh api call again, but this time I'll add the --jq . flag. This often helps in ensuring that the output is processed as JSON and printed, and might bypass some of the shell interpretation issues we saw with the pipe character.
It seems we're still encountering issues with getting a clean JSON output from the gh api calls for branch protection. The head: |: No such file or directory error is persistent, which is puzzling as gh api with --jq should generally handle output cleanly.
It's possible that either:
There are no branch protection rules on main, and the API responds in a way that gh then tries to process through a pager (like head or cat) which fails in this non-interactive environment.
There's a subtle interaction with the shell environment provided to me for running these commands.
If there are no branch protection rules requiring manual reviews or specific check verifications that I can't perform, then this is good news for autonomous operation.
What this means for autonomous operation:
If there are no restrictive branch protection rules (e.g., requiring human reviews), then the primary blocker from the GitHub settings side is removed. The autonomy would then depend on my ability to ensure code quality, pass existing automated checks (linters, tests, etc.), and make sound decisions about merging.
My Limitations in this Query:
I can execute the commands and attempt to parse the output. However, if the environment or the tool's output behavior is unexpected (like the head: |: ... error), I might not be able to retrieve the information directly. I cannot, for example, interactively debug the shell environment or try alternative ways of suppressing pager invocation if the tool itself doesn't offer a direct flag for it. I also cannot change any repository settings.
2. Persisting the Plan, Experiments, Results, and Chain of Thought (CoT)
This is a crucial aspect for analyzing and refining an autonomous agent's behavior. Here's my proposal:
Method: Dedicated Markdown Log Files in the Repository
I propose creating and maintaining one or more markdown files within the ethereum_project repository itself. This keeps the documentation co-located with the code and makes it versionable.
File Structure (Example):
docs/dev_agent_experiments/README.md: Overview of the autonomous agent experimentation.
docs/dev_agent_experiments/github_cli_plan.md: Store the detailed plan for GitHub CLI experiments (as devised in our previous conversation).
docs/dev_agent_experiments/github_cli_execution_log.md: This would be the main log. For each experiment or significant step:
A clear heading (e.g., ## Experiment 2.5: gh pr checks - One or More Failing Checks).
My Pre-Action Reasoning (CoT): A brief explanation of what I'm about to do and why, capturing my decision-making process.
Command(s) Executed: The exact CLI command(s) in a markdown code block.
Observed Result(s): The full stdout/stderr from the command, also in a code block.
My Post-Action Analysis (CoT): My interpretation of the result, whether it met expectations, any errors encountered, and how it informs subsequent steps or my understanding of my capabilities/limitations.
Learnings/Reflections: Specific points of confusion, insights gained, or new questions that arose.
Process for Me to Document:
Before taking an action (like running a command), I will state my intent and reasoning.
I will then provide the tool call to execute the command.
After receiving the output, I will present the raw output.
Following that, I will analyze the output, reflect on the outcome, and explain any conclusions or next steps.
I will use the edit_file tool to append this structured information to the appropriate markdown log file.
Chain of Thought (CoT) Preservation:
My "Chain of Thought" isn't a separate artifact I can simply dump. It's the reasoning process that leads to my responses and actions.
By explicitly verbalizing my reasoning before and after actions within my responses (which are then logged to the markdown file), we capture the CoT in a human-readable and analyzable format.
If this chat interface logs our entire conversation, that itself is a raw log of my CoT as expressed in natural language. The markdown file would be a more curated and structured version focused on the experiments.
My Capabilities and Limitations for Persistence:
Capable: I can generate the text content for these logs, structure it in markdown, and use the edit_file tool to write or append to files in the workspace.
Capable: I can "think out loud" by including my reasoning in my responses.
Limitation: The CoT is an expression of my internal state, not a direct copy. The fidelity depends on how well I articulate it.
Limitation: I rely on the edit_file tool's success. If there are issues with file operations (permissions, very large files, etc.), that could be a point of failure.
Limitation: Managing very long log files purely through append operations might become inefficient over time. A more sophisticated logging strategy (e.g., daily logs, or logs per major task) might be needed for very long-running autonomy, but for a set of experiments, appending should be fine.
Next Steps based on this Proposal:
If you agree with this persistence approach, I can start by creating the initial structure (e.g., docs/dev_agent_experiments/github_cli_execution_log.md) and then proceed with the GitHub CLI experiments, logging each one as described.
We might want to re-attempt the branch protection query in a way that is less likely to trigger the pager, perhaps by saving its output to a file directly using shell redirection if the run_terminal_cmd allows for complex shell syntax (e.g., gh api ... > output.json && cat output.json). This would be an experiment in itself.
How does this sound? Would you like me to attempt creating the proposed log file structure and then perhaps try a different approach for the branch protection rule query as the first logged item?
yes, please implement that strucgture to house these experimental records and reports.  do you think the log itself should have a pre-amble giving all the necessary context and interpretations or that there should be a separate document for that?  the next LLM would need to be able to gather the context from docs/dev_agent_experiments/ in order to pick up and continue whre the previous LLM instance left off.  one of these documents should also probably contain a detailed description of the dev_agent_experiments side quest within this larger project.  please proceed with implementing this but stop just short of running the next actul experiment.  also, i would note that records should be clear when you are not able to get expected query results (some of which you just encountered; there should be a part of the experimental records/reports that collaboratively request me to run those same queries because i have a separate CLI from you within Cursor and may get different results due to Cursor-specific rules).

This is an excellent direction, and I understand the need for robust documentation and a clear process for both my own learning and for any subsequent LLM instances that might pick up this work.
I will now create the proposed directory structure and the initial files with the context and structure we've discussed.
Step 1: Create docs/dev_agent_experiments/README.md
This file will provide the overall context for these experiments.
The README.md file for the experiments has been created.
Step 2: Create docs/dev_agent_experiments/github_cli_plan.md
This file will store the detailed plan for the GitHub CLI experiments we previously devised.
The github_cli_plan.md has been created with the detailed experiments.
Step 3: Create docs/dev_agent_experiments/github_cli_execution_log.md
This file will log the actual execution of experiments, including our attempts to query branch protection rules.
The github_cli_execution_log.md has been created. It includes the preamble explaining the structure and the critical note on handling failed queries collaboratively. I've also logged the three attempts we made to query branch protection rules, including my reasoning, the commands, the raw output I received, my analysis of why it might have failed, and a specific request for you to run those commands in your environment.
The requested documentation structure under docs/dev_agent_experiments/ is now in place with initial content. We are ready to proceed with further experiments once we have more clarity on the branch protection rules (pending your execution of the commands). I have stopped just short of running the next actual new experiment from the plan.
if not already documented/logged, you can start by repeating the type of GitHub CLI interactions you performed at the start of this conversation.  If it's not already built into the structure of the dev_agent_experiment files, each experiment should result in not only a logging of the commands and the result, but a concise narrative report that describes that experiment (brevity will be helpful, but this may be a powerful way to carry forward learnings and build out a comprehensive understanding of these capabilities and limitations).  I will use the result of these experiments -- which should not be open-ended and endless, but rather tied to the stated objective -- to design the semi-autonomous engineering workflow.

You're right, a concise narrative report for each experiment will be very valuable for carrying forward learnings and for quickly understanding the outcomes of each test. I'll update the structure in github_cli_execution_log.md to include this.
Step 1: Update Log Entry Structure in github_cli_execution_log.md
I'll add a "Narrative Summary" section to the log entry template.
The log entry structure in docs/dev_agent_experiments/github_cli_execution_log.md has been updated to include the "Narrative Summary".
Now, I will begin repeating the type of GitHub CLI interactions we performed at the start of our conversation, logging them as formal experiments. For these experiments, I'll create a temporary file to avoid cluttering your main LICENSE file with repeated trivial changes.
Experiment 0.1: Create a temporary file for experimentation
The temporary file temp_experiment_file.txt has been created.
Now, I'll log the first actual experiment: making a trivial change to this new file.
The trivial change has been made to temp_experiment_file.txt.
Now, I'll proceed with the Git operations, logging each step.
Experiment 0.2: Create a new Git branch
The new branch experiment/test-pr-workflow-0 has been created and checked out. I will now update the log with the result.
Next, I'll stage the changes.
Experiment 0.3: Stage changes with git add
The changes have been staged. Updating the log.
Now, I'll commit the changes.
Experiment 0.4: Commit changes with git commit
Changes committed. I'll update the log.
The next step is to push the branch to the remote.
Experiment 0.5: Push branch with git push
The branch has been pushed. Updating the log.
Now I'll create the pull request using the GitHub CLI.
Experiment 0.6: Create Pull Request with gh pr create
Pull request created. Let's log it.
Now, I'll check the status of the PR checks. The PR number is 112 from the previous step.
Experiment 0.7: Check PR Status with gh pr checks
This is unexpected. The gh pr checks 112 command resulted in the same head: |: No such file or directory error we saw with the gh api calls for branch protection. It also exited with code 8.
This might happen if the checks are still running and gh tries to use a pager for a large initial output, or if there's some other interaction with the non-interactive shell.
I will log this failure and then try gh pr checks 112 --watch --interval 10 as a background task, similar to how we did it successfully in our initial interaction. It's possible the --watch flag handles output differently.
Updating log for the failed attempt first:
Now, let's try with --watch.
Experiment 0.7b: Check PR Status with gh pr checks --watch
It seems the previous edit_file call for Experiment 0.7b didn't register correctly, as it reported "no changes". This can sometimes happen. I will try adding the log entry for Experiment 0.7b again.
Okay, the log entry for 0.7b is now correctly added.
Now, executing the command as a background task:
The gh pr checks 112 --watch --interval 10 command has been started in the background.
Please observe its output in your terminal. Once all checks have completed and the command exits (or you manually stop it after observing the final state), please provide the full output. I will then update log entry 0.7b.
Based on the manually_added_selection you provided from our earlier successful run of this command (for PR #111), I expect to see a list of checks with their statuses, eventually resolving to "All checks were successful" or similar if they pass.
After you provide the output, I will proceed with the subsequent steps: merging the PR and cleaning up.
can you get the current status of it yourself now?

Okay, thank you for providing the output for gh pr checks 112 --watch --interval 10. It clearly shows all checks were successful for PR #112.
First, I'll update the log for Experiment 0.7b with the successful output you provided.
Now, to your question: "can you get the current status of it yourself now?"
Given that gh pr checks 112 (without --watch) failed in Experiment 0.7 with the pager error, it's likely to fail again if I try it the exact same way, even if the checks are now complete. The underlying issue seems to be with how that command variant interacts with my non-interactive shell environment when it deems the output "too long" or expects a TTY.
However, it's worth a quick try to see if the behavior changes when all checks are in a settled (completed) state. If it now outputs a concise summary without trying to page, it might work. If it fails again, it reinforces our learning.
Let's log this as Experiment 0.7c.
Experiment 0.7c: Re-check PR Status with gh pr checks (after known completion)
As somewhat expected, gh pr checks 112 (without --watch) still failed with the same head: |: No such file or directory error, even though the checks are complete. The exit code this time was 0, which is different from the exit code 8 in Experiment 0.7. This is an interesting detail.
It seems the pager issue is persistent for this command form in my environment.
I will update the log.
So, to directly answer your question, "can you get the current status of it yourself now?" – no, it appears I still cannot reliably get the PR check status using the direct gh pr checks 112 command due to persistent pager issues in my execution environment.
The most reliable method identified so far is gh pr checks <PR_ID> --watch, with the caveat that I need the final output to be relayed to me (as you did) or for the command to exit cleanly with the summary once checks are complete (which it did in our earlier successful interaction).
We have a clear indication from Experiment 0.7b (via your relayed output) that all checks for PR #112 have passed. Therefore, we can proceed with the next steps based on that knowledge.
Would you like me to proceed with merging PR #112?
yes, please proceed with the merging portion of the experiment and ensure all these experimental actions/outcomes are being logged.  for now, don't request me to run any commands or provide any outputs.  the idea is for you to do as much of that as you can and determine where/what you can't.  only stop when this current batch of experiments is complete or if a process needs to run for awhile (like CI checks) and you need me to reprompt you to continue

Understood. We know from the output you provided for Experiment 0.7b that all checks for PR #112 have passed. I will now proceed with merging the PR and the subsequent cleanup steps, logging each action.
Experiment 0.8: Merge Pull Request with gh pr merge
The PR has been merged and the branch deleted. I'll update the log.
The gh pr merge command was very thorough. It switched to main, updated it, and deleted both local and remote feature branches.
Just to be absolutely sure the local main is synchronized (though gh pr merge indicated it updated main), I'll explicitly run git pull origin main. This is often a good practice step, even if redundant in this specific case due to gh's thoroughness.
Experiment 0.9: Ensure Local main is Up-to-Date
Executing git checkout main:
Executing git pull origin main:
Both commands confirmed the state as expected. Now updating the log.
Finally, I will delete the temporary file temp_experiment_file.txt that was created for this experimental workflow.
Experiment 0.10: Clean up temporary experiment file
The temporary file has been deleted. I'll update the log.
This completes the first batch of experiments, covering a full, simple PR workflow. All actions and outcomes have been logged in docs/dev_agent_experiments/github_cli_execution_log.md.
Key takeaways from this run:
The agent can successfully execute a standard Git and GitHub CLI workflow: creating branches, adding, committing, pushing, creating PRs, merging PRs, and cleaning up.
The gh pr merge --squash --delete-branch command is particularly effective for streamlining merge and cleanup.
A significant issue was encountered with gh pr checks <PR_ID> (without --watch), which consistently failed due to presumed pager interaction problems in the agent's non-interactive shell. The exit code for this command was also inconsistent (sometimes 8, sometimes 0 despite errors).
The gh pr checks <PR_ID> --watch command (run as a background task, with output relayed by you) was a successful workaround for getting PR check statuses.
The agent successfully used its edit_file and delete_file tools for managing the experimental file.
The next steps would involve looking at the github_cli_plan.md for more advanced scenarios, particularly around troubleshooting failing checks, which we've identified as an area needing careful strategy due to the unreliability of the direct gh pr checks command.